Improve protocol section (#35)
valory-xyz/docs: docs/protocol/index.md

![Autonolas Protocol logo](images/protocol.png){ align=left width="150" }
</figure>

The on-chain **Autonolas Protocol** anchors the Autonolas autonomous services -and in particular the current incarnation as agent services- on the target settlement layer and provides the primitives needed to create, operate and secure such services.

> The protocol also provides a mechanism that incentivizes their creation and **rewards developers and service operators proportionally for their efforts to support the growth of the Autonolas ecosystem**.

Author: fixed

<figure markdown>
![Package minting](./images/ecosystem_flywheel.svg)
</figure>

> Autonolas strives to incentivize software composability and reusability. Thus, the Autonolas Protocol reflects such composability by representing software components as NFTs, and incorporates a mechanism that enables combining them to take into account their actual software composition relationship. This is a crucial feature to measure their contribution and reward according to the protocol tokenomics model.

Author: rewriten

Autonolas strives to incentivize software composability and reusability. Thus, the Autonolas Protocol reflects such composability by representing software components as NFTs, and incorporates a mechanism that enables combining them to take into account their actual software composition relationship. This is a crucial feature to measure their contribution and reward according to the protocol tokenomics model.

The Autonolas Protocol is built with the {{open_autonomy}} framework in mind as the primary framework for realizing agent services. However, it does not prescribe the usage of the {{open_autonomy}} framework and allows for services to be implemented on alternative frameworks.
The Autonolas Protocol is [currently deployed](./technical_overview.md#contract-addresses) in Ethereum and Görli chains, and it will be progressively deployed in all major blockchains.

!!! abstract "Learn more"

    Read the **Technical Architecture**, **Tokenomics** and **Governance** sections in the [Autonolas Whitepaper](https://www.autonolas.network/documents/whitepaper/Whitepaper%20v1.0.pdf) for the full details of the **Autonolas Protocol**.

> 

Reviewer: Do you think we can or have to cite the various repository and documentation therein?

Author: Sorry, I didn't make my point clear. 

I meant, as "owner" of this info textbox (which I also agree is useful here), do you find approppriate to insert the links to the details and technical repos (as suggested above by @mariapiamo) in this short text ?

Reviewer 2: Ah I see, no that doesn't seem necessary to me

![Autonolas Protocol logo](images/protocol.png){ align=left width="150" }
</figure>

The **Autonolas Protocol** is a collection of smart contracts that implements a mechanism to secure open-source code on-chain, and provides incentives to developers proportionally for their efforts in supporting the growth of the Autonolas ecosystem. The protocol is built with the {{open_autonomy}} framework in mind as the primary framework for realizing agent services,  alternative frameworks can also be used.

The Autonolas Protocol is [currently deployed](./registry_technical_overview.md#contract-addresses) on Ethereum mainnet and Görli testnet, and it will be eventually deployed on all major smart-contract blockchains.

## Components

There are three main elements that make up the protocol:

* The **On-Chain Registry** anchors Autonolas autonomous services on-chain, and provides the primitives needed to create, operate and secure such services.

> * The **Tokenomics** defines an economic model facilitated by the [OLAS token](https://etherscan.io/token/0x0001A500A6B18995B03f44bb040A5fFc28E45CB0). This is a mechanism to grow the capital deployed in services and reward developers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The **Tokenomics** defines an economic model that uses the [OLAS token](https://etherscan.io/token/0x0001A500A6B18995B03f44bb040A5fFc28E45CB0) as a coordination mechanism to accomplish three main objectives:
- enable the pairing of capital and code in a permissionless manner
-  create a flywheel that attracts increasingly more value
and provides truly-decentralized autonomous services, owned by a DAO, operated by ecosystem actors, and coded by the ecosystem developers
- incentivize software composability.
```

> * **Governance** defines the rules of Autonolas as a decentralized, autonomous

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Governance**  allows the Autonolas DAO as a decentralized, autonomous
```

> organization (DAO), which is governed by the community.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
organization (DAO), to steer and fine-tune aspects of the Autonola protocol overtime.
```

![Autonolas Protocol logo](images/protocol.png){ align=left width="150" }
</figure>

The **Autonolas Protocol** is a collection of smart contracts that implements the mechanism to secure open-source code on-chain, and provides incentives to developers proportionally for their efforts in supporting the growth of the Autonolas ecosystem. The protocol is built with the {{open_autonomy}} framework in mind as the primary framework for realizing agent services,  alternative frameworks can also be used.

> The Autonolas Protocol is [currently deployed](./registry_technical_overview.md#contract-addresses) in Ethereum mainnet and Görli testnet, and it will be eventually deployed in all major smart-contract blockchains.

Reviewer 2: in Ethereum -> on Ethereum

Reviewer 2: in all -> on all

## Components

There are three main elements that make up the protocol:

* The **On-Chain Registry** anchors Autonolas autonomous services on-chain, and provides the primitives needed to create, operate and secure such services.

> * The **Tokenomics** defines economic model facilitated by the Autonolas token. This is a mechanism to grow the capital deployed in services and reward developers.

Reviewer 2: defines an economic

> * The **Governance** defines the rules of Autonolas as a decentralized, autonomous

Reviewer 2: The Governance -> Governance

organization (DAO), which is governed by the community.

<figure markdown>
![Autonolas Protocol elements](./images/autonolas_protocol_elements.svg)
</figure>

!!! abstract "Learn more"

    Read the **Technical Architecture**, **Tokenomics** and **Governance** sections in the [Autonolas Whitepaper](https://www.autonolas.network/documents/whitepaper/Whitepaper%20v1.0.pdf) for the full details of the **Autonolas Protocol**.

## Rationale

> In most settings, the reward model for service owners and agent operators is usually straightforward: users remunerate service owners, and service owners remunerate operators supporting their service. However it is not always well-defined how this is propagated to open software developers. This is where the Autonolas Protocol plays its role.

Reviewer 2: I guess this should be "open-source software developers" rather than "open software"?

    * Enable the pairing of capital and code in a permissionless manner.
    * Create a flywheel that attracts increasingly more value and provides truly-decentralized autonomous services, owned by a DAO, operated by ecosystem actors, and coded by the ecosystem developers.
    * Incentivize software composability.

* **Governance**  allows the Autonolas DAO as a decentralized, autonomous
organization, to steer and fine-tune aspects of the Autonolas protocol over time.

!!! abstract "Learn more"

    Read the **Technical Architecture**, **Tokenomics** and **Governance** sections in the [Autonolas Whitepaper](https://www.autonolas.network/documents/whitepaper/Whitepaper%20v1.0.pdf) for the full details of the **Autonolas Protocol**.

## Rationale

In most settings, the reward model for service owners and agent operators is usually straightforward: users remunerate service owners, and service owners remunerate operators supporting their service. However it is not always well-defined how this plays out in the case of open-source software developers. This is where the Autonolas Protocol comes in.

> Autonolas proposes a model where open-source developers, that contribute to the community, benefit from those contributions. This model consists on incentivizing software **composability**, **reusability** and **utility**. Roughly speaking, software packages (components and agents) brought to the Autonolas ecosystem are secured and minted as NFTs in the Autonolas protocol. These packages can be used to code agents and services by composition, and the protocol has mechanisms to unambiguously represent the actual software/system composition on-chain. This is a crucial feature to [measure the utility](https://github.com/valory-xyz/autonolas-tokenomics/blob/main/docs/Autonolas_tokenomics_audit.pdf) of the code brought by developers and provide a fair reward for their contributions.

Author: ```suggestion
Autonolas proposes a model where open-source developers which contribute to the community benefit from those contributions. This model consists on incentivizing software **composability**, **reusability** and **utility**. Roughly speaking, software packages (components and agents) brought to the Autonolas ecosystem are secured and minted as NFTs in the Autonolas protocol. These packages can be used to code agents and services by composition, and the protocol has mechanisms to unambiguously represent the actual software/system composition on-chain. This is a crucial feature to [measure the utility](https://github.com/valory-xyz/autonolas-tokenomics/blob/main/docs/Autonolas_tokenomics_audit.pdf) of the code brought by developers and provide a fair reward for their contributions.
```
